# OpenCL-Scatterv-Gatherv
This project contains two OpenCL programs (for CPU device) to implement the following scenarios. For each scenario, I have implemented a separate OpenCL program (both host and kernel application). 
Scatterv:
There are 10 processes that are participating in the communication equivalent to MPI “Scatterv”. Out of these 10 processes one process is randomly selected as coordinating process (who’s buffer is scattered). The data-buffer to be scattered should be dynamically created [1000 min-elements to 10000 max-elements] and initialized by each process. The sendcount and displacement data-structure are also randomly generated (for 10 processes) in coordinating process. After scattering data, every process calculates sum of the received data values. All the processes communicate their local sums to main program (host program in this case) and the main program then finds a global sum and displays the result on the screen.

Gatherv:
There are 10 processes that are participating in the communication equivalent to MPI “Gatherv”. Out of these 10 processes one process is randomly selected as coordinating process (who’s buffer will be prepared by gathering data sent by others). The data-size to be gathered is dynamically created by each process [20 min-elements to 200 max-elements] and initialized. The sendcount and displacement data-structure are also dynamically/randomly prepared (for 10 processes) and used by the coordinating process. After gathering data, the coordinating process calculates a dot product using another randomly created and prepared sparse data-array (sparse because the gathered data have been prepared using displacements thus could result in vacant data values). The coordinating process conveys the dot product data to main program (i.e., host). The host program sums all values and display the result.
